Exfiltrating Using Web Servers (version 1.0) Cloud Service Label:  IaaS, PaaS Description Many customer cloud deployments incorporate a public web server to
serve external entities with content.  Adversaries that have gained access to a
customer’s cloud assets and have already located and collected data for
exfiltration can use such web servers as a stealthy way of exfiltrating data. 
An adversary knows that cloud firewalls and monitoring products are configured
to expect and allow data to be served by public web servers.  There are public
exfiltration tools that make public web servers in a cloud especially
convenient for an adversary to utilize for exfiltration. Examples Name Description PyExfil Publicly
  available tool set to leverage web servers and other adversary controlled
  assets to stealthily exfiltrate data from compromised accounts. Mitigations Mitigation Description Audit Frequently
  check permissions on cloud storage to ensure proper permissions are set to
  deny open or unprivileged access to resources. Consider using automated
  resource checkers such as CloudSploit or Divvycloud. Frequently check accesses to web servers for content that has not been
  downloaded before. AWS To
  perform an audit via AWS it is suggested to review information such as
  account details (credentials, users, groups, roles, etc), mobile
  applications, EC2 configurations, policies, and account activity. How to
  audit these different factors can be found in detail at: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-security-audit-guide.html. Azure To
  perform an audit via Azure an administrator can review the audit logs that
  are recorded under Azure’s monitoring for active directory. The audit logs
  allow for filtering, as well as looking at users, groups, and enterprise
  specific information. Full details on how to access this information can be
  found at: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/reports-monitoring/concept-audit-logs. GCP To
  perform an audit via GCP the logs can be reviewed. GCP breaks this down into
  three categories; admin activity, data access, and system events. The audit
  logs can be viewed a few different ways- the console, API, or gcloud. Full
  details on how to view these logs, how to export, and for how to configure
  the retention period can be found here: https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/audit. Task
  Definition Edit Privileges If it is necessary to have a task definition run a role that
  requires an elevated level of permission, ensure that that task definition
  cannot be altered by everyone. Detection Detection Description Create Log Metric
  Filters and Alarms for AWS To create a
  metric filter and alarm: 1. Create a
  metric filter that checks for IAM policy changes and the <cloudtrail_log_group_name> 2. Create an
  SNS topic 3. Create an
  SNS subscription to the above topic 4. Create an
  alarm associated with the filter and SNS topic created in steps 1 and 2
  respectively Monitor Activity
  in AWS Account Various services
  in AWS offer logging features that allow for detection capabilities. These
  include CloudFront, CloudTrail, CloudWatch, Config, and S3. Monitor for
  Suspicious Activity in Azure Azure AD can
  generate anomaly reports than can be run on a daily basis. Azure AD Identity
  Protection show current risks in its dashboard and provides daily email
  summary notifications. Policies can also be configured to alert to specific
  issues. Create Log Metric
  Filters and Alarms for CloudTrail To create a
  metric filter and alarm: 1. Create a
  filter that checks for CloudTrail changes and the specific <cloudtrail_log_group_name> 2. Create an
  SNS topic that the alarm will notify 3. Create an
  SNS subscription to the above topic 4. Create an
  alarm associated with the filter from step 1 and SNS topic in step 2 Create Activity
  Log Alerts in Azure To create log
  activity alerts for deletion in the Azure Console: 1. Navigate
  to Monitor’ / ‘Alerts 2. Select Manage
  alert rules 3. Click on
  the Alert Name where Condition contains operationName equals
  Microsoft.Network/networkSecurityGroups/securityRules/delete 4. Hover a
  mouse over Condition to ensure it is set to Whenever the
  Administrative Activity Log “Delete Security Rule
  (networkSecurityGroups/securityRules)” has “any” level with “any” status and
  event is initiated by “any ” Create, View, and
  Manage Activity Alerts in Azure Monitor To create a log
  alert in the Azure portal: 1. Select Monitor
  -> Alerts 2. Select New
  alert rule of the Alerts window 3. Provide
  information in Define alert condition 4. Provide
  details in Define alert details 5. Specify
  action group for new alert rule under Action group , or create a new
  action group with + New group 6. Select Yes for the Enable rule upon creation option 7. Select Create
  alert rule To view and
  manage alerts: 1. Select Monitor
  -> Alerts -> Manage alert rules 2. Select the
  rule you want to modify and double-click to edit the rule options 3. Click Save Azure Resource
  Manager Templates Azure Resource
  Manager templates in the format of JSON files that can be used to configure
  metric alerts in Azure Monitor. These templates can be used for simple static
  and dynamic threshold metric alerts, availability tests, and monitoring
  multiple resources. Enable CloudTrail
  across all regions in AWS To enable
  CloudTrail across all regions: 1. Sign into
  the AWS Management Console and open the CloudTrail console 2. Click on Trails 3. Set
  necessary Trails to All option in the I column 4. Click on a
  trail via the link Name column 5. Set Logging to ON 6. Set Apply
  trail to all regions to Yes Configure log
  profile to capture activity logs for all regions in Azure To set up
  activity logs for all regions: 1. Navigate
  to Azure console 2. Go to Activity
  log 3. Select Export 4. Select Subscription 5. Check Select
  all in Regions 6. Select Save References https://github.com/ytisf/PyExfil/blob/master/USAGE.md#https-replace-certificate.
     Accessed March 8, 2020